# Work In Progress

Here's what we're working on. We'll be tracking it here until someone
gets around to proposing that we move to actual ticketing.

## Site reorg

We need someone with website informational architecture knowledge to
have a look at the website and help us reorganize it logically - perhaps
by topic, or by audience? - so that finding stuff isn't so hit-or-miss.

## De-duplication

Many of the docs on community.a.o either duplicate, or in some cases
contradict, more official documents on www.a.o. Identify these, and fix.
Link to the official documents for matters of policy. Docs on
community.a.o should be about advice, best practice, and howtos.

## Contributor Ladder

Last year we published the contributor ladder -
https://community.apache.org/contributor-ladder.html - which talks about
the "career path" through the Foundation. But there are many other rungs
and branches of the ladder that are not covered, including:

* Reviewer
* Documentor
* Community manager
* Communications lead
* Designer
* Security
* Emeritus (celebrating people who step away)
* etc.

Talk about these roles, and tie them directly to work that can be done
in various parts of the Foundation (Security committee, MarkPub, various
WGs, etc).

Provide some kind of visual representation of the ladder that isn't just
veritical.

## Fix site navigation

The menu at the top of the site needs to cover main categories. Right
now it's got a lot of random pages in it, and is missing others.

## Front page design

The front page of the website is a massive wall of text, and isn't at
all engaging. We have amazing photography. We have great content. We
need someone who can redesign the front page of the site and make it
appealing and engaging. Will need someone who knows how to work with
Jekyll templates to make this happen.

## Metrics

We need someone to add website visit metrics to the Community.apache.org
website and help us gain insight from those metrics. It's quite possible
that metrics is its own top-level working group. Discuss.



