# How and when to escalate an issue

We are not police. We are mentors. However, there may come times when an
issue should be escalated to the board. This document discusses how and
when to do that.

## Don't

The first principle is, don't escalate. Deal with issues within the
project. We are not police, we are peers. As soon as you start viewing
your role as enforcing rules, you should back off, and encourage someone
else to take that Sharpener role.

## But ...

If you feel that there is a serious problem within a project, and the
project is *unwilling* to address it, you should discuss the problem
with another Sharpener, for a second opinion. Remember that you are a
peer, not a cop, and your first motivation should be helping the project
move to a better place, not punishing them for breaking rules.

The key here is that the project is either unwilling to acknowledge the
problem, or having acknowledged it, is unwilling, for whatever reason,
to address it. 

If a project is working towards a solution, even if you don't feel that 
they're moving fast enough, then it is not your place to escalate that
problem. You can, and should, encourage the PMC to mention it in their
board report, but you should not "tattle" on them.

## Yeah, but ...

In the event that a project is persistently unwilling to address a
problem, you should, in collaboration with at least one other Sharpener,
email board-private@apache.org with a description of the specific
problem you are seeing, with documentation, and then leave it at that.
It is not your job to pursue that escalation unless and until the board
approaches you for additional information or action.

Remember, always, that you are a *peer*, and an advocate for the success
of the project, not a cop. But also that, as an ASF member, you are the
custodian of the reputation of the entire Foundation.

