# Sharpeners Work Group (Proposed)

To provide "Sharpeners" - volunteers who come alongside a PMC to offer
an outsider's perspective on the project, and advice to build their
community.

## Who

A Sharpener must be an ASF member. They are preferably a member who has
been around a while, and has some reason to be trusted as a mentor. You
must not already be a member of the PMC you wish to sharpen. You must 
not have any adversarial reason to take on the role - a bone to pick, 
a corporate entanglement, or whatever.

## What

A Sharpener will subscribe to the project's mailing lists
and mostly listen. They will comment constructively when they see
something that may be improved or when they have useful suggestions
for the community. They will report concerns back to the board, via
<private> sections in the ComDev report, under a new "Workgroups"
 section that will be created for this purpose.  Any comments made to
the board will be provided in advance to the project PMC via the
private@ mailing list.

See [use-cases](use-cases.md) for possible categories of
interest/involvement. See also [red-flags](red-flags.md) for common
signs of potential problems in a project.

## Values

Interactions by Sharpeners are at the pleasure of the PMC. You do not
have any authority over the PMC.

### Declinable

The PMC must be allowed to say "no thank you" without providing any
reason, and you must respect that decision, and not offer again unless
invited.

### Transparent

When you subscribe to the private@ list, you MUST introduce yourself and
state your purpose, complete with a link to THIS document. You MUST tell
the PMC when you intend to report something back to either ComDev or the
Board. You MAY announce yourself on the dev@ and other lists, a PMC 
member may introduce you, or you may just start participating.

We will also track, here, in this repository, which Sharpener is
observing which project.

### Non-adversarial

All feedback must be a polite, positive, actionable suggestion, not
merely a criticism or a "you're doing it wrong." You must suggest what
the community should do, providing links to policy or best practice documents
where applicable. Simply criticising is not welcome.

If you cannot operate in this fashion, then this role isn't for you.

### Confidential

(No, this isn't a contradiction to Transparent. Different audiences.)

All communications on private@ mailing lists are confidential. Sharing
information you learned on those lists to anyone outside of the
membership of the ASF is a severe breach of trust.  Whenever possible,
discussion should be on public lists; but sensitive issues need to
remain confidential.

Do not ever cross-post between private lists with disjoint audiences. In
general, this means don't forward content from a private list to anyone
who is not an ASF member.

All reports on Sharpener activity must be in <private> sections, unless
you have coordinated with the PMC to include it in *their* report.

### Collegial

You are a colleague - a peer. You are not in a position of authority.
You cannot tell the PMC what to do. You are only an observer, and, at
the indulgence of the PMC, advisor. Do not abuse this relationship.

## FAQ

### Why "Sharpener"

Because I wanted an "sh" word, to go along with Shepherds and Shadows,
which I'll be writing about elsewhere.

"As iron sharpens iron, so one person sharpens another."

### Why a member?

A Sharpener must be an ASF member. This is because doing this job
requires access to a projects private@ PMC mailing list. All ASF members
already have this access.

Furthermore, an ASF member has already earned trust in the context of
the ASF. Trust is transitive - that is, you may not know all members
personally, but each member was nominated and elected by people that
you, in turn, nominated and elected.


